# An Exploratory data analysis on the leading causes of death in Nigeria, public health implication

This analysis  seeks to examine and identify the leading causes of death globally while focusing on the case study of nigeria. Such an analysis provides insights into the factors that contribute to mortality rates in different regions and countries, thereby enabling the identification of effective public health interventions to reduce these rates and improve population health outcomes. Upon further analysis of the dataset, it was revealed that the leading causes of death globally were cardiovascular disease (30%), neoplasm (16%), chronic respiratory disease (7%), lower respiratory disease (6%), and neonatal disorders (5%). However, upon narrowing the scope of the study to Nigeria, it was discovered that diarrheal diseases (17%), malaria (15%), lower respiratory infections (14%), neonatal disorders (12%), and cardiovascular diseases (10%) were the main contributors to the percentage of cause of deaths in the country.

## ABOUT THE DATASET
This Dataset is created from [Our World in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/). This Dataset falls under open access under the Creative Commons BY license. You can check the FAQ for more information about it. Special thanks to Max Roser, Hannah Ritchie, and Fiona Spooner (2021) - "Burden of disease". Published online at OurWorldInData.org. Retrieved from: https://ourworldindata.org/burden-of-disease In this Dataset, we had Historical Data of different cause of deaths for all ages around the World. The key features of this Dataset are: Meningitis, Alzheimer's Disease and Other Dementias, Parkinson's Disease, Nutritional Deficiencies, Malaria, Drowning, Interpersonal Violence, Maternal Disorders, HIV/AIDS, Drug Use Disorders, Tuberculosis, Cardiovascular Diseases, Lower Respiratory Infections, Neonatal Disorders, Alcohol Use Disorders, Self-harm, Exposure to Forces of Nature, Diarrheal Diseases, Environmental Heat and Cold Exposure, Neoplasms, Conflict and Terrorism, Diabetes Mellitus, Chronic Kidney Disease, Poisonings, Protein-Energy Malnutrition, Road Injuries, Chronic Respiratory Diseases, Cirrhosis and Other Chronic Liver Diseases, Digestive Diseases, Fire, Heat, and Hot Substances, Acute Hepatitis.



